- [Narrator] In this lesson we're going to see
how we can use Json B to serialize a java object
to its Json representation.
So we're going to be working within our order resource,
which is a Jax RS resource and on that resource
we have a resource method named place order
that accepts a post and that post expects
a Json representation of an order object.
So what's going to happen here is Jax RS
is actually going to de-serialize the Json sent
in the http request to the order java type.
And then we're just going to kind of reverse that process
with Json B and we'll serialize the order object
to it's Json representation.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a Json B object,
so we can import that type,
and then we create a Json B object using a Json builder.
So you'll find that type and on it is a create method
that creates a instance of Json B.
Now once we have that Json B object, it is really simple.
The Json B object has a two Json method,
and all we need to do is pass in our java object
and it will serialize that object
to its Json representation.
So I'm going to assign that result to a string named Json,
and let's just kind of be clear in our terminology,
when we are serializing,
we are going from a java object to its Json representation.
And once we have that in a string we can go ahead
and let's just print it out to the console so we can see it,
and then we're going to make use of our JMS Service.
So you'll remember that our JMS Service
is able to write a JMS message onto a JMS cue.
So we're going to go ahead and send that message
over to our cue using the send method,
and then we'll pass in our Json string.
And then what we'll do in later lessons,
we're going to receive that message
via a JMS consumer that is listening on that cue,
and that consumer resides within our EJB project.
So we'll use our Jax RS project for serialization,
and then we'll use our EJB project for de-serializing.
And de-serializing is when you go from
a Json representation to a java object.
Now one thing I want to point out here,
if we take a look at our order object,
you'll notice that we have the item's field,
and then if we look at the corresponding Json,
you'll notice that we have the inventory items property.
So we have a mismatch between our Json and our java object.
The properties and the fields don't line up.
Json B provides us with a mechanism
that we can use to easily resolve this.
That mechanism that we can use
is the Json B property annotation.
And what we can do is then specify the name
of the Json property that we expect.
In this case it's going to be inventory items.
And you'll notice that I'm placing it on the setter,
so when we place the Json B property annotation
on the set method,
it's only going to impact de-serializations.
So I'm actually instructing Jax RS here
how to de-serialize that Json.
If we were to place it on the get method,
it's only going to impact serialization,
and then if we were to place it on the field level,
it would impact both serialization and de-serialization.
So let's go ahead and save this,
and then we're going to launch our application.
So we'll wait for our console to fire up here, okay.
And let's just split our screen,
and I'm going to clear the console.
And then we can go into our clips workspace,
into the Jax RS project,
and here within the source main resources directory
we're going to find our PowerShow command.
So just right click on the PowerShow command,
and then you can run the test with PowerShow.
So there we can see that PowerShow sent the
http request with our order Json,
and we can see that we were able to receive it,
and we were able to serialize using Json b
to our Json representation of the order.
And you will notice that we were able to resolve
that mismatch between our property and field names.
And then we see it arrive over on the JMS consumer.
All right, so that was a look at serialization with Json b.
Next we'll move on and take a look at de-serialization.